

Verbage on Unified Messaging Service (UMS)

The basic goal of UMS is to provide an integrated mail box that can 
contain voice, fax and electronic mail destined for a user. UMS, as
part of the integration also provides for the following:

Unified access.
Unified archival and storage.
Forwarding.

Multimedia Internet Mail Extensions (MIME) provides a mechanism for transport
of integrated multimedia mail, but does not address issues of access, storage
and retrieval.

What the Netoid system can do?

Everything is saved as an electronic mail in the user's mail box at the ISP.
The electronic mail contains attachments for voice and fax mail. The voice
and fax are in Netoid readable form -- viz. G.723.1 format, or other standard
formats (TIFF-F for fax, VPIM for voice etc).  The distinction is made in the
MIME extension type. The Netoid system introduces two new extensions: 
"x-netoid-voice" and "x-netoid-fax", both of which are under the "application"
sub-category.  Thus these e-mails would have extension types as 
"application/x-netoid-voice" for a Netoid encoded voice mail.  The Netoid
identifies the format based on this extension type.  The encoding type for 
voice and fax mails to be transmitted are also user selectable to be Netoid 
specific or other standards based. The advantage of storage as electronic-mail
is that the infrastructure for transportation, storage and retrieval is becoming
universal.

The Netoid Wizard helps in the integrated access of the mail box.  The Netoid 
Wizard launches appropriate helper applications to process the various mail
messages.  The fax mail is put through a TIFF viewer application, or it can be
routed back to the Netoid and to a fax machine, based on user preference.  
Similarly, the voice mail can be played through the Netoid and into the 
telephone.  The integrated access is provided through the Netoid Wizard 
software resident on the PC connected to the serial port of the Netoid.

However, in cases, where a PC is not connected to the Netoid, the Netoid itself
provides access to a limited set of message retrieval and archival services. 
The Netoid can provide a way to retrieve voice and fax mail messages from the
unified mail box.  The Netoid retreives all messages that are of the MIME 
extensions that the Netoid supports.


Sending Messages:

When a call is placed to a remote Netoid where the subscriber does not answer,
the remote Netoid goes into voice-mail mode, capturing a message for the
subscriber, just as a typical Answering Machine would.  This limited 
time span message, encoded in G.723.1 is then sent as an e-mail to the
user's e-mail address, resulting in storage at the mail-box at the ISP. The
Netoid then indicates to the user, the presence of a message(s) through the
use of a blinking LED on the front panel.  

The user then has a choice of retrieving his voice mail messages through two
ways: 
	- through the PC attached to the Netoid.
	- through the telephone attached to the Netoid.

If using the PC, the user retrieves the message into his local "inbox" and
uses a "viewer" that is part of the Netoid Wizard software that transmits the
message over the serial port to the Netoid, which decodes it back as analog
speech, which can then be piped over the telephone attached to the Netoid.

In the case where there is no PC attached to the telephone, the Netoid executes
the Post Office Protocol v3 (POP3), to selectively retrieve just the voice
mail messages one at a time and play them through the telephone for the user.


In the case of fax mail, it is necessary to have a fax device hooked to one 
of the user ports of the Netoid or have a "viewer" in the attached PC.
The retrieval and storage is similar to the case of the voice mail.


